add blog post for the new wireguard mode (#45)
mitmproxy/www: src/content/posts/new-wireguard-mode/index.md

---
title: "A more user-friendly transparent mode, based on WireGuard"
summary: | 
    The next release of mitmproxy is slated to ship with a new alternative to the existing "transparent" mode, based on
    WireGuard. The new "wireguard" mode was designed to be much simpler to set up and use, and in most cases, it does not
    require taking any actions with elevated privileges.
date: 2022-09-23
weight: 10
tags: [tech]
author:
    name: Fabio Valentini
    twitter: decathorpe
---

The next release of mitmproxy is slated to ship with a new alternative to the existing `transparent` mode, based on
WireGuard. The new `wireguard` mode was designed to be much simpler to set up and use, and in most cases, it does not
require taking any actions with elevated privileges.

Connecting another device and routing its traffic through mitmproxy becomes as simple as connecting to a WireGuard VPN

> --- either by using the WireGuard configuration that is printed by mitmproxy, or by scanning the QR code that is shown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--- either by using the WireGuard configuration file generated by mitmproxy, or by scanning the QR code that is shown
```

Author: I'll change this with the next push, thanks.

> in the mitmweb interface.

Reviewer: A screenshot would be great! Or even a 30sec gif/video from a phone scanning the QR code from mitmweb and it auto-configured the wireguard phone app.

Reviewer 2: Video I recorded the other day:
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1019198/192087170-9bf30c93-a2cd-4c24-8075-78963f4bb567.mp4

Screenshot:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1019198/192087189-797b0844-5586-4510-a564-e28a27561042.png)

Author: Great, I'll try to embed these two files :)

## How it works

> The core of this feature is implemented in the [`mitmproxy-wireguard`](https://pypi.org/project/mitmproxy-wireguard/)

Reviewer: will the main mitmproxy package pull in this dependency automatically (for all users), or do interested users need to install mitmproxy-wireguard explicitly?

Author: It's a new dependency and will be included by default. I added a sentence to clarify this.

existing WireGuard encryption keys, but will fall back to generating new keys if they don't exist yet. It will also
listen on the default port for WireGuard servers (51820/udp), which should already be allowed by the local firewall in
most cases.

For example, running `mitmweb` with the new `wireguard` mode and using default settings is as simple as running:

```shell
mitmweb --mode wireguard
```

The mitmweb interface then shows the configuration file and QR code that can be used to connect clients to mitmproxy
via the WireGuard tunnel.

## What's next?

Support for this WireGuard mode is still very new, and there are likely still bugs, but it should already work for basic
use cases. We're still [collecting feedback](https://github.com/mitmproxy/mitmproxy/issues/5592) (unless you're reading
this in the far future).

There's also a few things that do *not* work yet in this mode --- in particular, the support for IPv6 is still
incomplete, which is why the provided configuration for WireGuard clients will only route IPv4 traffic to mitmproxy.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

> &nbsp;

Reviewer: Please remove these blank paragraphs.

Author: I copied these from an existing blog post, but sure, I'll remove them.
